[Transcript missing]
Thank you, Travis, for the introduction,
and thank you all for coming to
today's session on high dynamic
range imaging with Image IO.
What I want to talk about today and
what you'll learn is about the new,
exciting,
emerging field of high dynamic range
imaging and how you can take advantage
of it today in Tiger using a new
facet of Quartz called Image IO.
But before I talk about those two
fields and the people who'll be coming
up and talking about it in more detail,
I want to give a brief update on
what's new in ColorSync for Tiger.
Because ColorSync is one of the key
pieces of technology that allows
for the proper rendering of both
standard and high dynamic range images.
So let me give an update
on ColorSync for Tiger.
We'll be talking briefly about adding
floating point support in ColorSync,
use of core foundation types,
some API changes we'll be making,
some notes for developers of custom CMMs,
and some changes to ColorSync
Utility's user interface.
So first and foremost is
floating point support.
As Travis mentioned earlier,
one of the things we're trying to do
for Tiger is provide a new high fidelity
cinematic graphic environment for Tiger.
And in order to achieve that,
we need full floating point support
throughout the entire system.
And one key piece of that is ColorSync.
So in order to achieve this,
the first thing we needed to do was
to have a new bitmap structure in
ColorSync for supporting arbitrary
bitmaps of floating point data that
your application can pass to us.
We wanted to make the structure
as flexible as possible so that
you wouldn't have to repack the
data before you send it to us.
So this new structure supports
both chunky and planar arrangement
of data and also allows for the
channels to be in any arbitrary order.
The way we achieve this in this structure
is it's a little different from other
bitmap structures you may have seen,
is that instead of having a single
base address for all the pixel data,
we actually have a different
base address for each channel.
This allows for the
channels to be in any order.
And then we also allow for both row
bytes and column bytes to be specified,
which allows for you to have your data
be scanned in reverse order if needed,
or also if you've got unusual
packing between channels that you
want to make sure to skip over.
So it's a fairly basic structure,
but in most cases,
most people will be passing in a
buffer of chunky or interleaved data.
And so we provided a simple utility
function called cmFloatBitmapMakeChunky,
which you supply at a
single base address,
and then it'll fill in the
structure appropriately for you.
In either case,
whether you fill in the structure by
hand or whether you call this helper API,
once you have a source and
destination float bitmap,
you can then call color sync to
match data from one space to another.
We have three functions to do this.
The first one is cmConvertXYZFloatMap,
which allows you to convert between
all the CIE-related color spaces,
so XYZ, YXY, LAB, and LUV.
And also another function,
which is convertRGBFloatMap,
which allows you to convert
between the RGB-derived spaces,
RGB, HSV, and HLS.
Both of these functions are
based on textbook formulas,
and so as a result,
there's no need to pass in a profile
or color world to do the transform.
It just does the math for you
with floating point precision.
The last is probably
the most interesting.
This is the new API, CMMatchFloatMap,
which allows you to pass in a
color world reference to perform
the actual transformation.
You can create the color world by
concatenating one or more profiles.
And then at that point,
the data will be sent through to the CMM,
which,
if it supports floating point data,
will be done in full
floating point precision.
One of the other changes we've made
to ColorSync is integrated in more
closely with the core foundation types.
And the key way we've done
this is that the two common
ColorSync opaque data types,
which are the CM Profile
Ref and the CM ColorWorld Ref,
are now CF types.
And this is quite convenient
because it means that you can
now call the CF-based functions,
such as CF Retain and CF Release.
And it also means you can
add profiles and color worlds
to dictionaries or arrays.
This is kind of handy if you're
passing profiles and dictionaries
around to other parts of your code.
The other way that we supported a
core foundation type is to actually
get the data out of a profile.
One of the questions I often hear
from new users to ColorSync is,
I've got this profile reference,
how do I get the data out of it?
In the past,
that was done by calling either
CM Copy Profile or CM Flatten Profile.
Now it's much easier.
You can just call
CM Profile Copy ICC Data,
and it will return you all
the data within the profile
as one giant CFData type.
Next thing I want to talk about are some
API changes that we're making for Tiger.
Way back several years ago,
one of the features
we added to ColorSync,
both at the API and the
user interface level,
were a set of preferences,
so that applications could have one
place to go to for specifying default
profiles based on usage or color space.
And at the time,
we hoped that this would be a way
of simplifying the user interface
across a wide variety of applications.
And so we presented both API and
user interface to help with this.
In practice, however,
it's turned out that very few
applications have used this API.
And what we're left with is
user interface in ColorSync
utility where people say,
"I can't figure out what this does
because nothing I change here seems to
make a difference." So we're listening
to the usage and we're actually
beginning the process of deprecating
the API and also the user interface.
So we still want the--any application
that's used in the ColorSync utility
to be able to make a difference.
So we're still looking at the application
that's used in the ColorSync utility.
And so we're looking at the application
And so we're looking at the
applications that were using
this API to function correctly.
So what we're doing is
changing the behavior of
CMGET default profile by space,
CMGET default profile by use,
and CMGET preferred CMM.
Instead of storing their preferences as a
setting that's global across the machine,
it will now be stored in
the current application,
current host, current user domain.
So the APIs will still function,
but we're deprecating them.
This has some ramifications
also in the UI,
which I'll talk about later.
I also want to take this time to
talk a little bit about custom CMMs.
One of the things that we've been doing
over the last few years is making even
tighter and more powerful integration
between the graphics system as a whole,
notably courts and printing
and color management.
And in order to achieve this with
high performance and high reliability,
we have made it so that courts and
printing will only use the Apple CMM.
That said,
we have a long tradition of allowing
applications and other developers
to develop their own CMMs and for
applications to call those if they wish.
It's still possible for applications,
if they wish,
to have a custom CMM and for
them to explicitly create a
color world using that CMM,
and that can be done using the
recommended API for this now,
is NCW Concat Color World.
And this API has an easy,
convenient way for you to
specify which CMM to use.
The other thing to mention for
CMM developers is that there's
a new entry point for CMMs,
which is CMM Match Float Map.
If your CMM supports this,
then you can have a full floating
point support throughout the
rest of the court system.
And if you don't support this,
then the data will be truncated
to 16-bit integers and everything
will work sufficiently.
Lastly, I want to mention some changes
we're making to ColorSync Utility.
As I mentioned earlier,
we're deprecating the Preferences
APIs for default profiles.
And one visual manifestation of this
is that we were removing the user
interface from ColorSync Utility.
However,
we're adding something in its place.
We'll be adding a new utility
to the ColorSync Utility,
which we call a calculator.
So let me give a brief
demonstration of this on Demo 2.
over here.
So as we see in the ColorSync utility,
everything looks similar except
that there's no longer the
preferences pane as the first item.
But we have a new item
which is a calculator,
which provides a very simple way
to convert color spaces between all
the various different color spaces
using floating point precision.
This is a convenience that also
provides a good way to demonstrate
our floating point data path.
So obviously,
we can specify our source color space
and our destination color space.
If we're just converting RGB to HSV,
we can see the slider values.
We can update the sliders on the left,
and they update on the right.
One thing you'll notice is because the
RGB and HSV are related color spaces,
they're basic formulas for each other.
So as a result,
the color on the left will be the
same as the color on the right.
If we switch to CMYK,
you'll see something slightly different,
which is now it's going
through a profile.
And if I go to a saturated color,
you'll notice that the color
on the right is desaturated.
One of the other things we added is the
ability for it to be fully symmetrical.
So now instead of just
updating on the left,
I can also update on the right,
and it'll show you the
values in that order.
We can also, this is an interesting way
to test out a CMYK profile.
We can specify that we want to
input LAB values and output to CMYK.
And as we scroll through
all the possible LAB values,
we can see what the resulting
CMYK values will be.
So that's the brief demo
of the color calculator.
We hope that's a useful function.
So back to slides.
So the next thing I want to talk about
is something that's all new for Tiger,
which is this new facet
of Quartz called Image IO.
And again, as Travis alluded to earlier,
we wanted to provide a new API for
doing image processing or image reading
and writing from a variety of formats.
And this is Image IO.
We'll be talking today
about its features,
its goals, what formats it supports,
the clients of this API,
some of the core concepts that you
need to understand for using this API,
and some advanced techniques as well.
So what are the features of Image IO?
Well,
first is we want to be able to read a
wide variety of file formats and write
to a wide variety of file formats.
We also want to support
reading and writing metadata.
And also,
we want to support incremental loading
for clients such as web browsers
that get data in an incremental
fashion over a slow data connection.
We also want to support
floating point support,
because that's one of the key
initiatives for graphics in Tiger.
We also want to have broad color
space support and something
called cacheable decompression.
I mentioned a little bit on this now,
which is, typically,
different APIs for reading and writing
image file formats have one of two
behaviors in terms of decompression.
In the case of the existing
core graphics APIs,
every time you draw the image,
it's fully decompressed each time.
This obviously has the advantage that
you have very little memory overhead,
but it's a performance hit if you
draw the image more than once.
Other APIs have the behavior that
the first time you draw the image,
it fully decompresses it,
which obviously requires more memory,
but has the advantage that subsequent
draws will perform quickly.
There are merits to both approaches.
And so one of the approaches
we've used with ImageIO is to
try to allow for both features.
Not all file formats
support both approaches,
but wherever possible,
we support both philosophies.
Here are some of the
overarching goals for image.io.
First and foremost was to
reduce code duplications.
Turns out there was an embarrassing
number of different variants of
JPEG readers and writers and TIFF readers
and writers within our system.
And they all had different
strengths and weaknesses.
And if you were actually
trying to write an application
that read and wrote images,
you had to make a choice
between which strengths and
weaknesses you wanted to use.
We wanted to have a single reference
implementation within the system
and use that in as many places as
possible so that we have a single
place to make changes in the future.
One of the other goals is we wanted
to leverage open source so that our
behavior of our APIs was consistent
with other implementations.
And improve performance.
This is one of the other key things.
We've been spending a lot of time
with the vectorization team at
Apple to make sure that our key file
formats decompress with optimum speed.
Another feature was lazy decompression
in the sense that if all you
need to do is get the height
and width or metadata out of an image,
you shouldn't have to
fully decompress the data.
So we want to support that as well.
And lastly, we wanted to make sure
we had a very modern,
core graphics-friendly,
and easy-to-use API that you could all
easily adopt this in your applications.
So one of the first questions I always
get when I'm talking about image I/O is,
well, what formats do you support?
And we support all the
standards for the internet,
TIFF, JPEG, PNG, JIF, and JPEG 2000.
These are already supported on the
Developer CD that you got this week.
We're also supporting
some exciting new formats,
such as some high dynamic range formats,
such as OpenAXR, Radiance,
and some important variants on TIFF,
such as Log LUV, and some Pixar variants.
There's also countless other formats
we're going to be supporting,
BMP, PSD, QTIF, SGI, ICNS files.
And we're considering more,
both for Tiger and beyond.
So the clients for Image IO.
Obviously, we hope that anyone who wishes
to use this API are free to
use them in their application.
But there's also lots of places
within the system that are
going to be calling Image IO.
So you may get the benefits
of Image IO without having
to change your code at all.
Probably the first and most
important client for Image IO is
the preview application.
This has been a great example of how
the power of the new Image IO and some
of the advantages you can get from it.
It's making strong use of this new API.
Also, AppKit will be switching over.
It's not yet switched over in
the current developer release,
but AppKit will be switching over to
using the new Image IO API as well.
WebKit and its clients, such as Safari,
Mail, and any of your applications
that are using WebKit,
will be using Image IO.
Core Image is using Image IO to
load data in floating point format.
Spotlight is using it for generation
of thumbnails and getting metadata.
And some of our scripting technologies,
such as SIPs and image events,
are also using Image IO.
So we're trying to use this
everywhere in the system.
Eventually, I want to give an outline
on the API in Image IO,
but before I do that,
I want to talk a little bit about
how images are organized so that
you can get an understanding for why
we designed the API the way we did.
In previous systems,
the standard way of representing an image
in core graphics was with a CgImageRef.
And this was a great basic
format for representing images.
It allows you to specify three things:
the geometry of the image,
such as its height, width,
rowbytes and pixel size,
the color space of the image,
which can be a profile or
other equivalent description
of the color space,
and the actual pixel data.
This is the minimum information
you need to describe an image.
However, it turns out that there's a
lot of file formats out there,
and they are actually quite
elaborate in many cases.
And so one of the things we
wanted to support in Image.io
was a richer model for images.
For one thing,
we wanted to be able to support
thumbnails and metadata for images.
And also,
a lot of file formats support multiple
images within the same file format,
such as TIFF.
So we want to make sure
we support that as well.
And also,
there's a set of attributes that apply
to the image file as a whole rather
than to the individual file images
contained within the image file.
This is the file format of the image,
such as whether it's TIFF or JPEG,
and also some properties that
apply to the file as a whole.
For example,
TIFF files can be big Indian.
Here's an example of how
this works in practice.
We're using an example of a TIFF file.
The file type is public.TIFF,
which is a universal type
identifier that describes this
image as being of the type TIFF.
We have some properties that
apply to the file as a whole,
the file size and bytes, for example,
and the endianness of the TIFF.
And then we have the standard
information for each image,
such as its height and width,
its color space, its pixel data,
its thumbnail, if possible,
and its metadata,
such as copyright and artistry.
information, you name it.
So here's how this model is reflected
in our API through data types.
What we have is we use the existing
CG image ref to represent the geometry,
color space, and pixel data.
The thumbnail is also
represented by a CG image ref.
The metadata and the file
properties are represented as
key values in a CFDictionaryRef.
So it's all very simple.
So now I can talk a
little bit about the API.
What we've added is a new data
type called CGImageSource,
and this is the opaque type
used for reading images
from either memory or disk.
You can create a CGImageSource
from either a CFURLRef,
CFData, or with a CG data provider.
Once you have a CG image source,
you can query the image
source for several attributes.
You can ask for the properties
of the file as a whole using
CGImageSourceGetProperties.
You can ask for its file type
by calling CGImageSourceGetType.
You can get the count of images
using CGImageSourceGetCount.
Once you know the count of images,
you can then, for each image,
ask for its image.
You can ask for its thumbnail,
and you can ask for its metadata.
So it's pretty simple.
Just to show you how this works,
here's a little code
sample that shows you how,
given a URL,
to get the first image out of the file.
It also returns some simple metadata.
In this case,
it's just returning the DPI of the image
in the horizontal and vertical direction.
First thing this code does is
call CGImageSourceCreateWithURL,
which creates our data type for
subsequent access to the file.
Then what we want to do is
we want to get the set of
properties for the first image.
So we call
CGImageSource.getPropertiesAtIndex,
and that returns a dictionary.
We can then query that
dictionary to see if it has the
DPI height and width properties
and return those to the client.
Lastly,
we need to actually return the image,
so we call CGImageSource
createImageAtIndex,
and that will return
the image to the caller.
Here's another example for getting
a thumbnail out of an image.
Image IO is very flexible
for creating thumbnails.
As it turns out,
some file formats support thumbnails,
some don't.
Also, with some file formats,
the thumbnails can be quite large.
Your application may need to have
control over how thumbnails are returned,
and we provided that with the
Image IO API via an options dictionary.
In this case,
what we're doing is we're again creating
a CG image source by specifying a URL.
And then we're going to be
creating an options dictionary
with two key value pairs in it.
The first key is CG image source
create thumbnail from image if present.
What this does is tell Image IO that even
if the image doesn't create a thumbnail,
return the actual image instead.
So we'll always get an
image for the thumbnail.
The second key value pair we specify is
CG image source thumbnail max pixel size.
And this allows us to make sure that
the thumbnail is of a reasonable size,
which is especially important if
you've specified the previous option.
So in this case,
we're saying that we always
want an image to be returned,
and we want it to be no
bigger than 160 by 160 pixels.
Once we've created that dictionary,
all we do is call CG image
source create thumbnail at index,
specifying the image source, 0 at index,
and the options dictionary,
and it's returned.
This is, for example,
the way that the spotlight
technology creates thumbnails for
images in the search results field.
So that's the basics of
reading from an image I/O.
Here's what we do for writing.
We have another data type,
which is CGImageDestination,
which can be created with the CFURL,
CF mutable data,
or with a CG data consumer.
At the time of creation,
you also specify the type of the file,
whether it's a JPEG or TIFF for example,
and the capacity, or the number of images
that that image will hold.
Once you have a CGImageDestination,
you can specify the properties
for the file as a whole using
CGImageDestinationSetProperties.
And then you can repeatedly add
each image with various options
and metadata at the same time
using CGImageDestinationAddImage.
Lastly, you can flush the file out to
either the URL or to the data by
calling CGImageDestinationFinalize.
And that returns true if the
image was successfully flushed.
Again, let me give a short example
just to show how easy this is
to add to your application.
We have a function called WriteJPEGData,
which takes a URL and an image to write
and a DPI to specify in the metadata.
First thing we do is we create
an image destination with a URL,
specifying that it's going to be of type
JPEG and that it's got one image in it.
Next thing we do is we specify
a dictionary with three keys and
values for options and metadata.
One option that we're specifying
is the quality of the JPEG,
and that's specified with the
key KCG image property quality.
In this example,
we're specifying a quality
of 0.8 or 80% compression.
The other two key
values are for metadata,
and they are the KCG image
property DPI width and DPI height.
In this case,
we're just creating CFNumbers based
on the value that was passed in.
Once we have this dictionary,
then we call CGImageDict.
We call CGImageDestinationAddImage
to add the image and its options and
metadata to the CGImageDestination.
And lastly,
we call CGImageDestinationFinalize
to write the file to disk.
So it's pretty easy.
So those are the basics of Image IO.
I hope I've given the impression
that this is a very simple and easy
API to add to your application.
And again,
some of these benefits you'll be
getting for free if you're using
AppKit and other technologies.
Let me talk for a minute about some
of the more advanced techniques
that come up when we talk about
image reading and writing,
such as extracting ARGB data,
requesting the depth of an image,
and loading an image incrementally.
So one of the common
questions we have is,
well,
an image has been returned from ImageIO,
but I don't know what color space it is.
I don't know what depth it is.
I don't know what pixel format it is.
And I have an application
that only works in RGB.
That's a common scenario.
And this is an interesting
piece of code that makes it
very easy to convert the data,
no matter what format it came in,
into ARGB.
Basically, the technique is to use a
CG bitmap context to render the
original image into an offscreen.
And one advantage of this is
that it takes care of all the
color management correctly.
If the image happened to be an
LAB or CMYK image and had a profile,
then it'll be correctly color
managed to the RGB color
space that you're working in.
Another interesting question
is the depths of image.
Some formats only
support one pixel depth.
For example,
JPGs are always 8 bits per sample.
Other formats can support
arbitrary pixel depths.
For example, TIFFs can be 1, 2, 4, 8,
or 16 bits per sample.
As a rule, the image returned by
Image IO will be the same depth
as that indicated by the file.
So if you open a 16-bit TIFF file,
you'll get a 16-bit CG image ref.
However, in the case of high
dynamic range file formats,
it gets a little bit more complicated.
The data in these file formats
are typically encoded in
special encoding formats,
which can then be decoded
in a variety of ways.
They can either be unpacked
to floating point values,
either 32- or 16-bit formats,
or to integers with
16- or 8-bit precision.
Also, in the decoding process,
they can either be left
as extended range values,
or they can be compressed to the
logical 0-to-1 clipped range.
Both of these are reasonable
types of values to be returned,
and your application may
want one versus the other.
By default,
CG Image IO will return an image ref
that's compressed to 16-bit integers.
This gives the best results
with reasonable memory for
the typical application.
However, if by request,
an application can specify that
they want the floating point
unprocessed data returned.
Here's a brief example
that shows how to do this.
This is a code snippet that, given a URL,
will request that the data
be returned in floats.
And if the data is actually
returned as a float,
a boolean will be returned to
specify that it was actually floats.
The way we've done this is,
as you've seen from
the previous examples,
we create an image source,
and we specify an options dictionary,
which has as one of its key value pairs,
CGImageSourceMaximumDepth
with the value 32.
At this point,
we can then ask Image IO to get
the properties of the first image,
given those options.
And this will return a dictionary.
We can then query that dictionary to see
if it has floating point data or not.
Then lastly, we can get the image and
return that to the client.
Another advanced technique I wanted to
make sure people knew that we supported
was incremental loading of images.
I won't go into too much detail on this,
but the basic idea is that you create an
image source in an incremental fashion
using CG image source create incremental,
and then you repeatedly add
updated data to the image source.
Each time you add data,
you can request a new image,
and it'll give you a partial image or
complete if the image is fully loaded.
The, um, and then at the-- once
you're done with the image,
you can release it,
and then once you've added more data,
you can get a new updated image.
It's important that you release
it before you ask for a new image.
So let me give a brief
demonstration of Image IO in action.
So one of the things I want to
show first is the new preview.
And I've got a bunch of images here.
Open.
And one nice thing in preview
is you can open all the images
just by selecting a folder.
And I've got a variety of images in here.
One of them is an LAB image,
and we can do that by-- we
can verify that it is an
LAB image by going to Tools,
Get Info.
And this shows the metadata that's
been obtained using Image IO.
And we can tell in here from the
metadata that's currently returned
that the color model is LAB.
We have a variety of other images.
We can zoom in and zoom out.
The thumbnails over here were
obtained using Image IO as well.
We have high dynamic range images here.
We can zoom in and zoom out on that.
Luke later will show how we can
manipulate these images in real time.
Here's another interesting example
which I like to show people.
This is one of our things
that we use for testing.
Oftentimes, people want to know, well,
how do I know if the
profile is being used?
What I have here is a document.
It's a black and white CMYK document.
that has a profile in it that makes
values that are gray disappear.
So if this image were rendered
and the profile were ignored,
what you'd see is the text,
the embedded test profile is not used.
And that's because you can't see it here,
because the profile is being used,
but there's actually a
gray word not right here.
So it provides an interesting
test so that you can tell if your
profile is being respected or not.
Here in this gray version,
you can kind of see a little
bit of the hint of what was
once there and the word not.
But this is a great
way of testing images.
We really should distribute
these at some point.
One other example of using Image IO,
I have a test application which
shows some of the options.
So let me go to open one
of the images we just saw,
look at desktop images,
and open up this image here.
We can see some information,
the height and width,
and how long it took to draw.
One thing we can do is we can specify
that we'd like to see what this would
look like if it was progressively loaded.
If I open up another image,
if I open the high dynamic range image,
this is a big image, unfortunately,
so it takes a couple seconds to open.
If we bring up the metadata on this,
we go to Window, Metadata.
We can see that it has height and width,
and its depth is 16.
This is because by default
we return 16-bit integers.
However, if we want to return it as 32,
and again, it'll take a second or so.
This code still needs to
be alt of x someday soon.
We need to bring up the metadata.
And now we can see that
there's a new property in here,
which is saying that data
is returned as floats.
So that's the introduction to Image IO.
I'm going to pass the microphone
and the demonstration and all the
new stuff over to Luke Wallis,
who will be talking about
high dynamic range imaging.
Thank you.
Thank you, David.
So today,
I will be talking about Mac OS X support
for high dynamic range imaging,
which is a new and exciting feature that
we are adding into the Tiger release.
As many of you know,
high dynamic range imaging is generating
a lot of interest and is still a
subject of very active research.
So, we could talk about high
dynamic range imaging from
many different points of view,
but what I would like to do
today is concentrate on answering
very simple three questions.
What is it?
Why use it?
And how to process it?
Before we try to answer these questions,
let's take a quick look at the current
status quo in digital image processing.
We can conclude that in the majority,
digital image processing is dominated by
what is called output-referred approach.
What it means is that
The requirement of image reproduction
are imposing certain requirements on
the way we acquire and create images.
And because most of the
devices we are dealing with,
like displays and printers,
can only handle 8-bit
data per color channel,
We impose the same requirement
on digital cameras that,
in fact,
could produce much more about an order
of magnitude more data if they were
not restricted to that requirement.
Obviously, there are some advantages.
This is not done for no reason.
The main is that there is a very minimal
image manipulation required before
displaying or printing such an image.
But obviously,
there is a disadvantage that we
are losing a lot of color and image
information that could be used in further
image processing that could result in
much higher quality of display or print.
Oops, sorry, wrong direction.
Another requirement,
which is sort of hidden in
the output-referred approach,
is that the data is exchanged
in one predefined color space.
And in the most difficult case,
this is sRGB.
So when you look at this slide,
you see I drew the shape of the
typical exchange color space,
made it be sRGB.
That color space covers
only a part of visual gamut.
So everything is fine as long
as the camera is acquiring the
color data within that triangle.
But if we are outside,
then we are out of luck.
We have to do something with this color,
and typically we have to
push it into the color space.
It can be done through different methods,
but because the cameras are
not very sophisticated in
terms of processing power,
we are using very often color space.
And as we know from practice,
gamut clipping can produce
really bad results,
like, for example, hue shift.
And here is one of the maybe a
little bit strong and exaggerated
examples what could happen,
but this is a real clipping
in which the white color,
because of clipping, became a mixture of
completely unrelated colors.
So, when that is what we can conclude
when we look at the image processing
from the point of view of device
capabilities to reproduce the image.
And what I would like to do now is
to look at the image processing from
a little bit different perspective,
from the perspective of human vision.
And as we know from the very
rich research in this area,
color and visual acuity are
two of the most important
characteristics of the scene.
And not only this,
these two depend on luminance
and observer's visual adaptation.
We know that we can measure
the world luminance,
and it will cover the range of the
values between 10 to power of minus 6,
all the way to the power of 10 to 8 when
measured in candelas per square meter.
But what is important for us is
that different ranges of luminance
create different illuminations.
Now, and that illumination also can
stretch all the way from very
dark environment through starlight
all the way beyond the sunlight.
And now,
I could spend a lot of time talking
about physiological and physiological
mechanism controlling our vision,
but what I would like to do without
going through those details,
to say that humans have
three types of vision,
which are dependent of
the type of luminance.
We have scotopic vision,
which works when we are
in the dark environment.
We have mesopic vision,
which works in light-dark environment.
And finally, when we are in high
illumination environment,
we switching to photopic vision.
Why is this division important?
Because our quality of vision is
related to this type of vision.
As we know, if we look at something in
a very dark environment,
we have no color vision
and very poor acuity.
Everything in the darkness seems
to be just a shade of gray.
On the other hand,
our best vision is in the photopic range,
where we can see many colors and
have a good color and visual acuity.
This is not everything.
What is very important is that humans
have a limited simultaneous range,
which also depends on
the type of illumination.
And here I'm showing the
widest simultaneous range,
which again exists in
the photopic vision,
that can cover the range of
order of magnitude 3 to 4.
But if we...
Try to estimate this simultaneous
range in poor vision.
The values can drop by the order of two.
So, we may ask ourselves why
this is all important.
Well, I think there is an answer.
Because if we want to represent
faithfully the scene that we want
to process through image processing,
we should have a mechanism to
encode the data the same way,
or at least as close as possible
to the human vision fidelity.
So now,
let's take a look where in this picture
we can fit the typical 8-bit display.
And as we know,
the typical 8-bit display can
cover the range of luminance
on the order of magnitude of 2.
That is a big discrepancy between
human simultaneous range and
dynamic range of a display.
So,
this is the biggest challenge that we are
facing when we have to map the relatively
wide human simultaneous range into low
dynamic range of our display device.
There is one solution which
we already know about.
This is the output-referred
digital photography.
We are imposing
[Transcript missing]
This is a small color space,
and the only thing we can do is to
choose between different options.
This is a simplistic
view in which we may say,
well, if I want to expose the
details in highlight,
I can use the short exposure.
But if I want to see the
details in the shades,
I can sacrifice the details
in highlights and use the long
exposure to capture what I wanted.
The most important point is that
this applied exposure is permanent.
Once we burn this into the image,
there is no way back.
So I think that at this moment
I will try to answer the question,
what is high dynamic range?
And I think that we can define
high dynamic range as a special
encoding of the image data,
which allows us to preserve the
full fidelity of human vision.
From the implementation point of view,
The high dynamic range imaging
is based on color values that,
first of all, extend over at least
four orders of magnitude,
that can encompass the
entire visible color gamut,
and allow the values outside of a
typical 0 to 1 range values of color.
In a summary, what it means that in high
dynamic range imaging,
we are no longer limited
to a specific color space.
We are trying to encompass, as I said,
all visible colors.
But on the other hand,
we need to remember that we
no longer have a convenient,
ready-to-display or ready-to-print image.
High dynamic range data requires
some kind of manipulation
before it can be displayed.
But the big advantage is that
we can make this decision at the
moment when we need to reproduce the
image with our preference instead
of burning that to the image.
This is a kind of simple
explanation how we can do that.
We can go back and select
the short exposure,
long exposure.
But most importantly,
we can implement something
which was not needed before,
is the tone map rendering,
which will allow us to achieve
completely different results.
For example, here,
I can try to combine in one image
the details from the highlights
with the details from the shades.
So now, I'll try to answer the question,
why use high dynamic range images?
And the most important reason is
to preserve the scene-referred
information that can be useful
in further image processing.
And this way,
we want to avoid intermediate
encoding with restrictive color gamut,
which was happening in this previous
approach called output-preferred.
And also, we can avoid irreversible
modifications that happened
during the image acquisition.
How to process high dynamic range images?
The simplest answer is that we should
not add any rounding or clipping errors.
And for that,
we want to render and capture
the data in floating point.
We want to store the entire image.
And if needed, to process the color data
in extended color space,
which again will not impose any clipping.
And at the end,
we want to apply a tone mapping
for a specific image reproduction.
For example,
that specific reproduction could be
an example I just showed you that
I want to see all the details in the
image from the highlights and shadows.
Now,
let's take a look at the file formats
that we are supporting in Tiger.
I think that the most important citizen
here is OpenEXR that comes from ILM.
First of all,
it has the smallest quantization error.
And most importantly,
as you will see later,
it comes with the recommended
way of tone rendering,
which solves a lot of problems in
terms of presenting the image content.
The other formats basically just define
the way of encoding and decoding data
with preserving the image fidelity.
So now,
I would like to show you-- if I can
get my-- this is demo machine-- my
little application in which I can
open high dynamic range images.
And what I would like to show
you is that we have to do
something with those values,
which are so large and much
bigger than what we can represent
by typical range of 0 to 1.
And one would think that very
simple approach would be to simply--
map the brightest point in the image
to the brightest point of the display.
But if I do that with my
little demo application,
you see that we don't see
too much in this image.
There is way too much information
beyond 1 and scaling didn't
produce any visible image.
Another very simple approach could be,
okay, let's say I would like to see
whatever you have in this image,
clip the values to 0, 1, typical range,
and show me that.
Well, as you see,
the image quality somehow improved,
but it's still very poor.
And now, if I use the OpenEXR,
and this is their
default 0 exposure value,
I'm getting some reasonable result,
and I can see many more details.
And not only this,
I can do what I was talking about,
that I can impose my preference at
the moment of reproducing the image.
For example,
someone may like this kind of image,
or someone else may still want to
focus on this beautiful stained glass.
I want to show you a
couple of classic examples,
like for example,
the famous Memorial Church picture,
which comes from the Debeweg website.
And the same thing happens here.
If we just scale the image,
the image is basically unreadable.
Clipping will show something,
that quality is really poor.
OpenEXR is doing a very good job here.
Another example is the picture
I was using in the previous
slides of our garage at Apple.
And this is how it looks when scaled.
This is how it looks when clipped.
Once again,
typical hue shift when clipping the data.
And OpenEXR producing
quite reasonable result.
What this leads us to the conclusion
that tone rendering is a very
important issue when processing
the high dynamic range images.
And maybe there may be many
different methods of doing that.
And I think this gives me a very good
segue to introduce Gabriel Marcu,
who will be talking about high dynamic
range tone mapping developed at Apple.
[Transcript missing]
How do we create high dynamic
range images is the next topic.
And this is quite interesting.
We can start with a file
format of these images.
And we have to code in RGB floats
the radiance of the scene.
So how do we capture this?
We turn to a method that was
published by Debevec and Malik,
recovering high dynamic range
radiance maps from photographs.
And essentially this method is
requiring to take multiple shots of
different exposures of the same scene,
and then combine these exposures
into a high dynamic range file.
We start with the block
diagram of the digital camera.
And if you look closely,
you can see that the scene radiance,
it is transformed to the digital
output in the digital file,
which is maybe JPG or other file,
by a set of transformation.
First,
the image is passing through the lenses,
then the shutter,
then the image is captured by the
CCD and converted by ADC converter,
and then some mapping is
happening in the camera,
for example,
gamma correction or raw image
to JPG image transformation,
and you finally get the
digital values in the file.
[Transcript missing]
I choose a number of
already exposed shots,
and we get a thumbnail
view on the left side.
And in here,
we can select any of these images
and see what is their content.
You note immediately that no
matter how we take these images,
you can see either details in
the shadow or either details
in the highlight of this.
And the high dynamic range file
will be able to capture all
information of the radiance of the
scene and will encapsulate this
in a high dynamic range format.
The first thing is to calculate
the high dynamic range,
to calculate the transfer
function of the camera.
And we did this in a single step.
You have seen several
curves put together,
and you recover the transfer
function of the camera.
Then the next step is to use this
transfer function and to compute
the high dynamic range image.
Now you can see that even in the paper,
it said that you need to do
this processing of the image.
And you can see that the transfer
function of the camera over many
and many images until you get an
average behavior of the camera
and use that transfer function
to create the high dynamic range.
We actually add more robustness to the
algorithm that is computing the transfer
function of the camera such that we are
able to recover the transfer function
only from the same set of images that we
used to create the high dynamic range.
So we recover the function
from this set of images.
And we apply this
function to these images.
And we create the high dynamic range.
This brings us to an algorithm that
will be able to do this kind of things
by just specifying the set of images.
So we choose a set of images.
Then the algorithm is computing
the transfer function of the
camera and is computing the high
dynamic range in a single shot.
And this gives independence
of this application.
from any camera settings or any
setup that you may have been
required to do for the method that
is published in the literature.
So this, let's say, you are switching to
another set of images,
for example.
From a different camera,
you don't have to specify the camera,
and you immediately get the high
dynamic range file direct from
specifying only the set of images.
The interesting thing about this is we
want the Apple user to be able to have
less intervention in this algorithm,
less guesswork,
and finally end up with an application
that will be able to provide
directly high dynamic range images
without taking care of anything.
And this is an advantage for the user.
Finally, I would like to mention that,
as you have seen here,
we select the images from a folder,
but we have worked
with the image capture,
so I invite you on
Friday afternoon from 5 p.m.
to see an integration of this algorithm
with the image capture modules,
and you will see an interactive
demonstration of how these images
are captured live with the camera,
and then a high dynamic
range file is created.
And with this, I thank you very much,
and I will turn back to Luke.
Thank you, Gabriel.
So, at the end of the presentation
on high dynamic range images,
I'd like to touch on the subject
which is very close to our
hearts of color-seeing engineers.
We are really interested in color
managing high dynamic range images.
And you must know that this
is the area which is under
very intensive investigation,
both in academic society
and in the industry.
At Apple,
we also are developing our own method of
color managing high dynamic range images,
and we are trying to take a new approach,
which is based on human adaptation
to image viewing environment.
We think that image contains enough white
point and adopting luminance information
that could be used by color appearance
model to predict human perception of
color in different viewing environments,
which basically means we can color
manage our high dynamic range images.
Just to clarify what kind of color
appearance modeling we are dealing with,
let me say that we are looking
at this kind of modeling
which consists of two major,
is based on two major concepts.
On chromatic adaptation,
which allows us to predict
the influence of adopted white
point on the color perception.
And on the second concept
is the degree of adaptation,
which allows us to predict simultaneous
color contrast related to the
luminance of adopted white point.
So, in summary,
what we are trying to do is to transform
the colorimetry of the source using high
dynamic range data to our destination.
And then,
after doing... after color managing
and bringing to new environment,
then applying tone mapping,
which will compress color to
the range of destination device.
And this is what concludes our
talk on high dynamic range images.
And I'll turn back microphone to David.
Thank you.
Thank you, Luke and Gabriel,
for your discussion.
I just wanted to bring it back
just to do a quick summary slide,
and then we'll have a few
minutes of Q&A at least.
Just wanted to summarize once
again what's new in Tiger.
We've got a lot of great stuff here.
First of all, in ColorSync,
we have floating point support.
Image IO,
we have a brand new modern API for
reading and writing that has optimized
performance and support for metadata.
And then we're doing a lot
with high dynamic range,
supporting OpenEXR file formats,
access to compressed or unprocessed data.
And also, this is an area of all sorts
of ongoing and future research.
We'll have lots to show for you.
So, again, we have a few other places
you might want to go.
There's a Graphics and
Media Lab session on Thursday where
you can talk to us if you have more
questions than we can get to today.
And then also,
there's going to be some great
demonstrations on the last show,
last session on Friday,
talking about image
capability and how to use it.
image capture in high dynamic range.